Jordan's foreign minister Iman Al Safar
has made a rare visit to Iran amid
Rising Regional tensions Iran has also
held talks with several other Arab
neighbors including Egypt Oman and Qatar
the US and its allies in the region are
lobbying hard to prevent a wider
escalation of the conflict following
Wednesday's assassination of Hamas
political Chief Ismael hania in
tan Israeli shelling and air strikes
targeted parts of Southern Lebanon on
Sunday it came after the Iranian backed
Hezbollah militants fired dozens of
rockets towards Northern
Israel most of them were
[Music]
intercepted the state of Israel is in a
multif front war against Iran's Access
of Evil we hit each of its arms hard we
are prepared for any scenario both in
defense and attack
I repeat to our enemies we will respond
and exact a heavy price for any Act of
aggression against us from any
front Iran and its Regional allies have
vowed revenge against
Israel after the targeted killings of
hisbah military commander faad shukr in
beut and Hamas political Chief is Han in
[Music]
tan diplomatic efforts are underway to
deescalate tensions across the
region Jordan's top diplomate made a
rare visit to
Iran frankly defend our and Washington
says it's preparing to help defend
Israel the President also been very very
consistent about proving not just with
words but with action that we're going
to stand up and defend Israel I mean on
the April 13th when Iran launched 300
missiles and drones the United States
had aircraft fighter planes in the air
to knock them down we've now added now
additional Naval and air assets to the
region to uh to help defend Israel again
I think we've proven time and time again
uh that we're going to support Israel
hasbullah and Israel have traded fire
along the Lebanon border since the Gaza
War
Began but there are concerns the crossb
fire could become an allout War am made
a regional escalation of the
conflict DW's China Kramer is in
Jerusalem and joins us now Tanya as
Israel readies itself for retaliatory
attacks from Iran or its proxies we
understand that in a meeting today prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu told his
cabinet that Israel was prepared for any
scenario any sense what they're
expecting well I mean we don't know
exactly what that retaliation would look
like we know for certain that Iran and
hollah have said that they have vowed to
retaliate uh we don't know the scope we
don't know the timing we don't know what
targets they're going to choose but
there are different scenarios that are
being discussed here in Israel and one
of them we can take it from statements
from Iranian officials but also from a
speech from uh hasah leader Hassan Nala
who said that you know indicated that
strikes could uh reach much deeper into
Israel that they might not be bound just
to military targets or to the north uh
of Israel what we've been seeing here in
in recent months those crossb strikes
between Hezbollah and Israel also they
could involve multi front attacks so
that means that uh Iran's partners and
allies in the region could join in so we
would have then Hezbollah would have the
houthis in Yemen we could have the Shad
militias from Iraq also some uh from uh
Syria uh attacking uh Israel now uh this
reminds many people in Israel of the
attacks in April by Iran a direct attack
at the time drones and missiles were
launched at Israel at the time they were
mostly intercepted uh by with the help
of a coalition by the air defense but
there's a sense here that this response
or this retaliation could could be much
more uh forceful uh this time and of
course and it also depends what Israel
will do then in the event of such a
retaliation so it's a very very great
moment of uncertainty here Tanya at this
point it's clear Israel has to worry
about multiple fronts can they deal with
that well I mean prime minister Benin
Netanyahu said it uh said it all over
again you know what he always says that
uh Israel is prepared for any scenario
and somehow with these uh strikes in
Beirut but also in tran although Israel
has not taken official responsibility uh
for that last one you know it shows that
somehow he is willing to intensify this
conflict I mean we've seen those crossb
attacks there was some sort of equation
or there were sort of contained between
Hezbollah and Israel but this seems to
have a changed now and it sends a
message to Iran and its allies that
Israel is not afraid to open another
front but Israel needs its allies
especially the US they have said they
moved some assets uh to the region but
also other Regional partners and it's a
very much concern uh to countries here
we've seen now the Jordanian foreign
minister uh holding uh talks uh in or
expecting to hold talks in Teran there
is very much the concern that this could
spill over and this could lead to a
wider escalation DW's China Kramer
reporting from Jerusalem many thanks